So async await is a nice alternative to the then and catch blocks and ultimately, it's up to you what
you prefer.
In a lot of my tutorials, I actually like to use then and catch instead of async await because I really
see a danger here with async and await that you could think that these steps really run after each other
because Javascript always executes all the code after each other
when this actually is not the case, async code and all these async operations are always provided by
the browser such that they can be offloaded to the browser
as you learned it earlier in the module and the browser comes back to you once it's done.
That has not changed and async await does not change this, it just has some invisible transformation
behind the scenes,
if you understand that, well this obviously is a bit shorter than this down there so you might prefer
that,
ultimately it's up to you.
In modern browsers, this might be a bit better from a performance perspective, async await might be a
bit better simply because browsers can also parse and execute this in a more optimized way but it will
not be a huge difference,
might not always be a difference for all possible examples or use cases and therefore ultimately, I'd
go with whatever you prefer,
the most important thing here just is that you understand what's happening behind the scenes.
One real downside you can have with async await though is that you can't run tasks simultaneously inside
of the same function. Previously with then and catch, these lines down there right,
if I comment them back in, you might remember they executed right away.
We called get position here,
in the end what we did is we called get position and then we had all that code here and the
thing was this executed and then we had these steps which would eventually execute but of course the
steps after get position, because of the way Javascript works would execute right away,
so this timer would be set right away and this console log would execute right away.
So if I temporarily comment out this async await part up there and I remove the async keyword, just
to bring back in memory what happened here,
also comment this out and I reload, you'll see if I click track me, getting position executed right away,
timer was set right away and thereafter our promise thing did its job. Now with the new syntax,
if I comment this back in and I add the async keyword again and I remove this code but I leave the set
timer and console log down there, that will of course also execute after these steps but the problem
is really only after all these steps.
So now if I reload and I click block for example,
you see getting position and timer done executes thereafter.
Now why is that happening? Because of await,
this does not pause code execution but behind the scenes, all these steps in the end get wrapped into
their own then blocks and therefore, this has its own then block as well and therefore this only executes
after this is finished.
It is as if down there, we would have added an extra then block where we had this code inside of it,
this was not the case. So async await is not that great
if you have a function in which you need to execute or kick off multiple things simultaneously and don't
want to execute everything after each other, then this is not ideal because right now we really got a
different behavior than before.
Of course you can fix this by offloading this into a different function which you kick off simultaneously
with this function and so on,
so there are ways around that,
it's just important to be aware of the fact that everything in this function executes after each other
if you start using async await. Another downside or thing to be aware of is that async await is only
available on functions.
So if you had some code outside of a function, let's say here you had some promise based code, you call
set timer here which of course returns a promise as you learned because we promisify this, then you
can't use await here because await can only be used in functions which are marked with async and this
is not part of a function,
it's part of this global anonymous function which you get automatically but that's not an async function
so to say. So here you would have to wrap this into for example an iffy in order to be able to use
that,
so here we could use async like this and then wrap this into an
iffy and that would now be a workaround to use await here.
Yes, this would work but of course that's also not that beautiful
if we really just want to replace this line here where we otherwise would have to use then. So async
await might not always be preferable
if you need to introduce a function just to use it, if you have a function anyways where you use a promise
in, then using async await of course is not too difficult.